README.md, before:

# Repo Insights - Track GitHub Repository Activity 🔍

## Overview
Repo Insights is an open-source web application designed to analyze GitHub repository contributions and track pull request activity. It helps identify active contributors in open-source projects, making it especially useful for Google Summer of Code (GSoC) mentors, organization administrators, and participants who want to assess engagement levels in various repositories.

🔗 **[Live Demo](https://repo-insights-enrezyltd-jhaayushkumars-projects.vercel.app)** - Try it now!

## Features

### 1. GitHub Repository Analysis
- Enter any GitHub repository URL to fetch and analyze pull requests.
- Filter contributions by different time periods: 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, or all time.
- Handles pagination for repositories with many PRs (up to 500 PRs across 5 pages).

### 2. Contributor Insights
- Identify and distinguish between project maintainers and regular contributors.
- View detailed statistics for each contributor:
  - Total number of PRs
  - Number of merged PRs
  - Number of open PRs
  - Number of closed PRs
- Sort contributors based on their activity level.

### 3. Pull Request Tracking
- View a detailed list of recent PRs in a repository.
- See PR status (open, merged, closed).
- Filter PRs by selected time periods.
- Access direct links to PRs on GitHub.

### 4. User Statistics
- Click on any contributor to see detailed contribution stats.
- View repository-specific contribution metrics for each user.
- See all recent PRs created by a specific user.
- Analyze the distribution of PRs across different repositories.

### 5. API Token Management
- Option to add a GitHub Personal Access Token to increase API rate limits (from 60 to 5,000 requests/hour).
- Tokens are stored locally for security (never sent to any server).
- Notification system for users without tokens, encouraging them to add one for better performance.

### 6. Performance Optimizations
- In-memory caching system to reduce redundant API calls.
- Maintainer status caching (1-hour TTL).
- General data caching (5-minute TTL).
- Deduplication of in-flight requests to avoid unnecessary API requests.
- Request limiting to prevent excessive API usage.

### 7. User Interface Features
- Dark/light mode toggle with persistent user preference.
- Responsive design that works across all screen sizes.
- Loading indicators with progress messages for long operations.
- Error handling with clear, user-friendly messages.
- Collapsible sections for better organization of information.

### 8. Special Functionality
- Detection of repository maintainers by checking for push/admin permissions.
- User status tracking across multiple repositories.
- Repository ranking for individual contributors.
- Graceful handling of API rate limits to prevent service interruptions.
- Fallback mechanisms for when GitHub data can't be fetched.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **API Integration**: Octokit (GitHub API)
- **Utilities**: date-fns (for date manipulation and filtering)
- **Performance Enhancements**:
  - Custom caching layer for efficiency
  - Persistent storage for user preferences and tokens
  - Component-based architecture with a clean separation of concerns

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (>=16.x recommended)
- GitHub Personal Access Token (optional but recommended for higher API limits)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jhaayushkumar/repo-insights.git
cd repo-insights

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000/`.

### Running in Production

To build and run the app in production mode:

```bash
npm run build
npm start
```

## Contact

If you have any questions, feel free to open an issue or reach out:
- **GitHub**: [jhaayushkumar](https://github.com/jhaayushkumar)
- **Email**: jha44481@gmail.com
- **LinkedIn**: [Ayush Kumar Jha](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ayush-kumar-5950b3323/)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

Made with ❤️ by Ayush Kumar Jha

Commit message:

feat: implement animated background with exact user css

README.md, after:

# Repo Insights - Track GitHub Repository Activity

## Overview
Repo Insights is an open-source web application designed to analyze GitHub repository contributions and track pull request activity. It helps identify active contributors in open-source projects, making it especially useful for Google Summer of Code (GSoC) mentors, organization administrators, and participants who want to assess engagement levels in various repositories.

🔗 **[Live Demo](https://repo-insights-enrezyltd-jhaayushkumars-projects.vercel.app)** - Try it now!

## Features

### 1. GitHub Repository Analysis
- Enter any GitHub repository URL to fetch and analyze pull requests.
- Filter contributions by different time periods: 2 weeks, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, or all time.
- Handles pagination for repositories with many PRs (up to 500 PRs across 5 pages).

### 2. Contributor Insights
- Identify and distinguish between project maintainers and regular contributors.
- View detailed statistics for each contributor:
  - Total number of PRs
  - Number of merged PRs
  - Number of open PRs
  - Number of closed PRs
- Sort contributors based on their activity level.

### 3. Pull Request Tracking
- View a detailed list of recent PRs in a repository.
- See PR status (open, merged, closed).
- Filter PRs by selected time periods.
- Access direct links to PRs on GitHub.

### 4. User Statistics
- Click on any contributor to see detailed contribution stats.
- View repository-specific contribution metrics for each user.
- See all recent PRs created by a specific user.
- Analyze the distribution of PRs across different repositories.

### 5. API Token Management
- Option to add a GitHub Personal Access Token to increase API rate limits (from 60 to 5,000 requests/hour).
- Tokens are stored locally for security (never sent to any server).
- Notification system for users without tokens, encouraging them to add one for better performance.

### 6. Performance Optimizations
- In-memory caching system to reduce redundant API calls.
- Maintainer status caching (1-hour TTL).
- General data caching (5-minute TTL).
- Deduplication of in-flight requests to avoid unnecessary API requests.
- Request limiting to prevent excessive API usage.

### 7. User Interface Features
- Dark/light mode toggle with persistent user preference.
- Responsive design that works across all screen sizes.
- Loading indicators with progress messages for long operations.
- Error handling with clear, user-friendly messages.
- Collapsible sections for better organization of information.

### 8. Special Functionality
- Detection of repository maintainers by checking for push/admin permissions.
- User status tracking across multiple repositories.
- Repository ranking for individual contributors.
- Graceful handling of API rate limits to prevent service interruptions.
- Fallback mechanisms for when GitHub data can't be fetched.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS
- **API Integration**: Octokit (GitHub API)
- **Utilities**: date-fns (for date manipulation and filtering)
- **Performance Enhancements**:
  - Custom caching layer for efficiency
  - Persistent storage for user preferences and tokens
  - Component-based architecture with a clean separation of concerns

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (>=16.x recommended)
- GitHub Personal Access Token (optional but recommended for higher API limits)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jhaayushkumar/repo-insights.git
cd repo-insights

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:3000/`.

### Running in Production

To build and run the app in production mode:

```bash
npm run build
npm start
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! There are **good first issues** available for beginners who want to contribute. Here's how you can get started:

1. **Fork the repository** and create a new branch.
2. **Pick an issue** from the [Issues tab](https://github.com/jhaayushkumar/repo-insights/issues).
3. **Implement the changes** and submit a pull request.
4. **Wait for review and feedback!**

## Contact

If you have any questions, feel free to open an issue or reach out:
- **GitHub**: [jhaayushkumar](https://github.com/jhaayushkumar)
- **Email**: jha44481@gmail.com
- **LinkedIn**: [Ayush Kumar Jha](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ayush-kumar-5950b3323/)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

Made with love by Ayush Kumar Jha
